[Security] Add documentation for programmatic login (#17284)
symfony/symfony-docs: security.rst

.. _security-form-login:

Login Programmatically
----------------------

.. versionadded:: 6.2

    The :class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` class
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2.
    The :method:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security::login` method
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2.

> You can log in an user programmatically using the `login()` method of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can log in a user programmatically using the ``login()`` method of the
```

:class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper::

use Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security\Security;

class ExampleController
{
    public function __construct(private Security $security)
    {}

    public function someMethod(): Response
    {
        $user = ... // Get the user to be authenticated

        $this->security->login($user);

        // Redirect the user to its account page for instance
        // ...
    }
}

> The previous example only works if you have only one authenticator configured on the current firewall so if you have more than one authenticator, you need to specify which authenticator should be used.

Reviewer 2: I think this line is too long

If no firewall is explicitly passed to the method, it will use the firewall from the current request. 

> And If the current request is not under any firewall, a ``\LogicException`` will be thrown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And if the current request is not under any firewall, a ``\LogicException`` will be thrown.
```

> And If the current request is not under any firewall, a ``\LogicException`` will be thrown.

Reviewer: I think I would replace this paragraph with real code in the example above and add inline comments about when what is required.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense to me

You can also pass the authenticator on which the user will
be authenticated against. For built-in authenticators, you can pass an authenticator name like ``form_login``,
``http_basic``... For custom authenticators, you can pass the service id of the authenticator

> (i.e. `App\\Security\\Authenticator\\ExampleAuthenticator`)::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(e.g. `App\\Security\\Authenticator\\ExampleAuthenticator`)::
```

i.e. means "in other words", e.g. means "for example" :)

.. _security-form-login:

Login Programmatically
----------------------

.. versionadded:: 6.2

    The :class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` class
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2.
    The :method:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security::login` method
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2.

You can log in an user programmatically using the `login()` method of the
:class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper::

use Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security\Security;

class ExampleController
{
    public function __construct(private Security $security)
    {}

    public function someMethod(): Response
    {
        $user = ... // Get the user to be authenticated

        $this->security->login($user);

        // Redirect the user to its account page for instance
        // ...
    }
}

The previous example only works if you have only one authenticator configured on the current firewall so if you have more than one authenticator, you need to specify which authenticator should be used.

> If the firewall is not explicitly passed, the method will
> be retrieved from the request. If the current request is not under any firewall an
> `Symfony\\Component\\Security\\Core\\Exception\\LogicException` exception will be thrown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If no firewall is explicitly passed to the method, it will use the firewall from the current request. 
In case the current request is not under any firewall, a ``\LogicException`` will be thrown.
```

(no need for precising that it's from security-core IMHO as such exceptions are not meant to be caught)

.. _security-form-login:

Login Programmatically
----------------------

.. versionadded:: 6.2

    The :class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` class
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2. In previous Symfony versions this class was
    The :method:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security::login` method

>     was introduced in Symfony 6.2.

Reviewer 3: Please reread the paragraph, there is something missing 😄

> Since Symfony 6.2, you can log in an user programmatically using the `login()` method of the

Reviewer 3: The `Since Symfony 6.2...` can be removed, we have a `versionadded` directive before

> `Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper::
```

use Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security\Security;

class ExampleController
{
    public function __construct(private Security $security)

>     {
>     }

Reviewer 3: Maybe we can shorten the example a bit
```suggestion
    {}
```

@symfony/team-symfony-docs are you fine with this?

.. _security-form-login:

Login Programmatically
----------------------

.. versionadded:: 6.2

    The :class:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` class
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2. In previous Symfony versions this class was

>     defined in ``Symfony\Component\Security\Core\Security``.

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if this should rather talk about the login method only
```suggestion
    The :method:`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security::login()` method
    was introduced in Symfony 6.2.
```

Since Symfony 6.2, you can log in an user programmatically using the `login()` method of the

> `Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper.
> 
> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`Symfony\\Bundle\\SecurityBundle\\Security\\Security` helper::

```

use Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security\Security;

class ExampleController
{
    public function __construct(private Security $security)
    {
    }

    public function someMethod(): Response
    {
        $user = ... // Get the user to be authenticated

        $this->security->login($user);

        // Redirect the user to its account page for instance
        // ...
    }
}

> The previous example only works if you have one authenticator in the firewall. If the firewall is not passed, it will

Reviewer 2: It feels like we are jumping a bit too fast from the `authenticator` to the `firewall` parameter, and then we talk back about the authenticator. I suggest to present the parameters in the order they are defined and provide the whole picture before talking about the next one e.g:

```suggestion
The previous example only works if you have only one authenticator configured on the current firewall so if you have more than one authenticator, you need to specify which authenticator should be used. 
If the firewall is not explicitly passed, the method will
```

> retrieved from the request. If the current request is not under any firewall an exception will be thrown.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
be retrieved from the request. If the current request is not under any firewall an ... exception will be thrown.
```

Reviewer 3: What type of Exception will be thrown?

You can also pass the authenticator on which the user will

> be authenticated against. For built-in authenticators, you can pass an authenticator name like "form_login",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
be authenticated against. For built-in authenticators, you can pass an authenticator name like ``form_login``,
```

> "http_basic"... For custom authenticators, you can pass the service id of the authenticator

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``http_basic``... For custom authenticators, you can pass the service id of the authenticator
```

> (ie `App\\Security\\Authenticator\\ExampleAuthenticator`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(i.e. `App\\Security\\Authenticator\\ExampleAuthenticator`)::
```

> 
> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

use App\Security\Authenticator\ExampleAuthenticator;
use Symfony\Bundle\SecurityBundle\Security\Security;

class ExampleController
{
    public function __construct(private Security $security)
    {
    }

    public function someMethod(): Response
    {
        $user = ... // Get the user to be authenticated

        // You can use the authenticator name for built-in authenticator (like "form_login", "http_basic"...)
        $this->security->login($user, 'form_login');

        // Or the service id of your custom authenticator
        $this->security->login($user, ExampleAuthenticator::class);

        // Redirect the user to its account page for instance
        // ...
    }
}

Previous examples retrieves the firewall name according to the current request. But you can also pass a firewall

> name to be authenticated against.
> 
> .. code-block:: php

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
name to be authenticated against::
```
